Course Syllabus for "PRDV101: Job Search Skills"
------------------------------------------------

This course is the first in a series of four courses under the Job
Search “umbrella” that include Job Search Skills, Resume Writing,
Interview Skills, and Professional Etiquette.  The Job Search Skills
course is intended to give you a solid beginning to this exciting time
of self-exploration with finding a job.  Whether you are seeking your
first job, wish to take the next step in your existing career, or desire
to begin a new career, you will obtain the necessary information about
yourself to turn this desire into a successful job search.  If, for
example, you think of yourself as a product that you are trying to
market to potential employers, you will realize that you can only be
successful if you know the product thoroughly and how this product can
meet the needs of the consumer (the employer).  This course will guide
you to information on how to target jobs and/or careers that are
desirable and realistic for you and that fill a need for employers in
today’s challenging job market.

### Learning Outcomes

Upon successful completion of this course, the student will be able to:

-   Identify and use online resources to perform self-assessment.
-   List resources to assist in the development of a personal career
    plan with specific goals and timelines.
-   Identify resources to create a job search strategy that reflects the
    student’s interests, abilities, and accomplishments to target
    appropriate jobs or careers.
-   List examples of long-term and short-term stressors, and describe
    effective coping measures.

### Course Requirements

In order to take this course, you must:  
  
 √    Have access to a computer.  
  
 √    Have continuous broadband Internet access.  
  
 √    Have the ability to install plug-ins or software (e.g. Adobe
Reader or Flash).  
  
 √    Have the ability to download and save files and documents to a
computer.  
  
 √    Have the ability to open Microsoft files and documents (e.g. doc.,
ppt, xls, etc.).  
  
 √    Be competent in the English language.  
  
 √    Have read the [Saylor Student
Handbook](http://www.saylor.org/site/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/Saylor-StudentHandbook.pdf).  

### Course Information

Welcome to **PRDV101: Job Search Skills**.  Below, please find some
general information on the course and its requirements.  
    
 **Course Designer:** Mary Matera  
    
 **Primary Resources:** This course is comprised of a range of different
free, online materials.  However, the course makes primary use of the
following materials:  

-   United States Department of
    Labor's [CareerOneStop](http://www.careeronestop.org/ReEmployment/)

<!-- -->

-   Humanmetricks’ [“Jung Typology
    Test™”](http://www.humanmetrics.com/cgi-win/JungType.htm)

<!-- -->

-   MindTools™ [“The Tool
    Kit”](http://www.mindtools.com/fulltoolkit.htm)

<!-- -->

-   Rogue Community College: Dr. Mary Askew’s [“Holland Code
    Quiz”](http://www.roguecc.edu/Counseling/HollandCodes/)

<!-- -->

-   United States Department of Labor: Bureau of Labor Statistics’
    [“Occupational Outlook Handbook”](http://www.bls.gov/ooh/)

   
 **Requirements for Completion:** This course is the first of four
courses targeted to prepare you for your next job or career.  Subsequent
courses will take you through the process of resume writing,
interviewing skills, and professional etiquette.  In order to complete
this course, you will need to follow instructions for each resource.  It
is our intention that as you progress through these resources, you will
gain insight about yourself, your interests, and your abilities as well
as how these factors match up with the current needs of employers.  At
the conclusion of the course, you will be asked to complete a final
exam.   
    
 Note that you will only receive an official grade on your Final Exam. 
However, in order to adequately prepare for this exam, it is recommended
that you take notes on and work through all materials throughout the
course.  
    
 In order to “pass” this course, you will need to earn a 70% or higher
on the final exam.  Your score on the exam will be tabulated as soon as
you complete it.  If you do not pass the exam, you may take it again.  
    
 **Time Commitment:** This course should take you a total of
approximately **3 hours** to complete.  Please plan additional time for
note taking and exploration of embedded links of interest to you.  Each
unit includes a “time advisory” that lists the approximate amount of
time you are expected to spend on each subunit.  This should help you to
determine how to budget your time to complete each of the three units.  
    

